# Simulation-of-Stochastic-Processes
This notebook started in August 2021 after a devastating COVID-19 wave hit India. The goal was to use online notes made available by Dr. (Prof.) Karl Sigman and write comprehensive MATLAB code while staying home and recovering from debilitating pneumonia. A small success has been achieved, but there are miles to go. This notebook is a compilation of notes, codes, and results that will continue growing as time passes. This work does not shy away from going across multiple domains and tries to establish the versatility of mathematical modeling itself. However, it is a long way from becoming a complete resource.
  
The basic structure of each section is simple. Theory, proofs, and modeling information are provided wherever possible. The document first discusses random number generation techniques, Poisson processes, Markov Chains, and Brownian Motion. Later, some applications are provided viz-a-viz queueing models, inventory processes, and insurance credit risk models. MATLAB codes have been presented for each of these sections, and basic algorithms are provided. Each code tries to implement the algorithm, generates outputs including visualizations and estimates, and presents functions to generalize the program wherever possible. 

Future work directions include writing rigorous theory based on proofs rooted in real analysis, deeper explorations in variations in the fundamental stochastic properties of some models, and using data for some of the applications. This document can be viewed as a journal of MATLAB programs in its current state. 

Any and all feedback is welcome and readers can reach out to me on GitHub and LinkedIn.
